Chapter 1

Article Content Type

Title:
Healthy Eating - Is This Practical in America? 

Body:
United States of America. This is the nation of which one of it's former presidents publicly said, "I don't like broccoli," and another political figure misspelled the word potato. It's also the place where TV commercials make a mockery of buying healthy vegetables at the supermarket when you can get your nutrients from vitamin supplements.

What is healthy eating anyway? Aren't we confused yet? Consider the orange (fruit). We try to improve its health-giving properties as a food, by juicing it and reconstituting it from concentrates and additives. Where is the fiber?

Oh that? We buy fiber supplement pills. And where did the fiber from the orange go? Who knows... It might be fertilizer or landfill.

Invariably, anyone who seems to be encouraging your to eat healthy is trying to sell you something.

You don't even have to have good eyesight (nor have to like eating carrots) to see that our reasons for eating healthy in America have been tainted by our quest for making money.

We put out food guides that claim to encourage us all to eat healthy. But the messages are mixed. Maybe we should try to find out how "sponsors" influenced Harvard's designing of the Healthy Eating Pyramid. I often wondered why they put alcohol and red meat in a healthy dietary guide.

Count the benefits of eating healthy
There are many benefits to healthier eating, personally, nationally, and globally. One can readily think of

    * Increased longevity
    * Increased national and personal productivity
    * Lower costs of national healthcare
    * Spend less for drugs and medicines
    * Cleaner environment, since we process less food
    * Decrease shortage of medical care personnel
    * ...and on, and on...

We need a healthy eating plan

There are many "healthy" eating plans sitting on thousands of wasted pages of health publications. We scarcely need more national healthy eating advice. What we need is more effort on an individual level.

I am advocating personal interest and responsibility for our own health. Most people already know that eating lots of fruits and vegetables, getting adequate rest, regular exercise, and avoiding the use of harmful substances are ways of maintaining good healthy. But how many of us find these things easy to do?

How many of us find it easy to resist the influences of fancy advertising instead of falling for the same junk food temptations every time? How many of us had a healthy eating plan that we have followed from youth?

It seems that by nature we are prone to be resentful of what has been scientifically and reasonably more beneficial and instead, inclined to adopt what is harmful.

It's an individual choice

One has to conclude that when it comes down to healthy eating, this is an individual choice. All the sayings, writings, and plans of government health agencies, research organizations, and any other interest groups amount to noise.

Healthy eating is an individual's choice made daily. Our habits are governed by tastes, environment, and what foods are readily available. We do have some control over those factors, though. Let's not wait until some health issues (sickness and disease) come our way. By then, we will be forced to make healthy eating a matter of survival. I know this from experience.

Copyright © 2006 by Bentley Thompson

Bentley writes about lifestyle-related conditions such as diabetes, obesity, high cholesterol, and cardiovascular diseases. He advocates the anti-diabetes diet which he describes on his website. You may visit his website and blog using the following URLs:
http://www.anti-diabetes-diet-supplements.com/ and
http://choosehealthtoday.blogspot.com

Article Source: http://EzineArticles.com/?expert=Bentley_Thompson



Cooking Tip Content Type

Title:
Marb Barbecue Tips

Body:
* Approximately 30 minutes prior to grilling, prepare the charcoal
   fire so coals have time to reach medium temperature. At medium,
   the coals will be ash-covered. To check the temperature of the
   coals, spread the coals in a single layer. CAREFULLY hold the
   palm of your hand above the coals at cooking height. Count the
   number of seconds you can hold your hand in that position before
   the heat forces you to pull it away: approximately 4 seconds for
   medium heat. Position the cooking grid and follow recipe directions.

 * Never place meat directly over an open flame. An open flame is an
   indication of incomplete combustion, the fire will discolor the
   meat by leaving a black carbon residue on the meat. Actually an
   open flame has a lower temperature than coals that are glowing red.

 * Whenever barbecuing, use tongs to turn the meat. A fork should
   never be used. For it will punch holes in the flesh and allow
   the natural juices to escape and loose flavor and become chewy.

 * Tomato and/or sugar based BBQ sauces should be added only at the
   end of the grilling process. These products will burn easily and
   are seldom considered an internal meat flavoring. Once added, the
   meat should be turned often to minimize the possibility of burning.



Recipe Content Type

Title:
Homemade Chocolate Cake

Body:
Ingredients
    * 200g good-quality dark chocolate, chopped
    * 200g butter, softened
    * 1 cup dark brown sugar
    * 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
    * 3 eggs, at room temperature
    * 1 1/2 cups self-raising flour
    * 2 tablespoons cocoa powder
    * 1/2 cup milk
    * Chocolate curls or shavings (optional), to serve (see note)
    * Chocolate icing
    * 200g good-quality dark chocolate, chopped
    * 1/2 cup thickened cream

Method
   1. Preheat oven to 170°C. Grease and line base and side of a 6cm deep, 22cm (base) round cake pan.
   2. Place chocolate in a heatproof, microwave-safe bowl. Microwave, uncovered, on MEDIUM (50%) for 1 to 2 minutes, stirring every minute with a metal spoon, until almost melted. Stir until smooth. Set aside for 10 minutes to cool.
   3. Using an electric mixer, cream butter, sugar and vanilla until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating after each addition. Add melted chocolate. Beat until well combined. Sift flour and cocoa together. Fold half the flour mixture into butter mixture. Add half the milk. Stir gently to combine. Repeat with remaining flour mixture and milk. Spoon into prepared pan. Smooth surface. Bake for 50 to 60 minutes or until a skewer inserted into the centre comes out clean.
   4. Stand cake in pan for 15 minutes. Turn out onto a wire rack to cool completely. Spread icing over top and side. Top with chocolate curls, if using. Serve.
   5. To make chocolate icing: Combine chocolate and cream in a heatproof, microwave-safe bowl. Microwave, uncovered, on MEDIUM-HIGH (70%) for 1 to 2 minutes, stirring every minute with a metal spoon, until almost melted. Stir until smooth. Set aside for 30 minutes or until thick enough to spread.


